[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: In
my last conversation
with Lynne McTaggart, we
spoke about her inspiration
for starting up
a magazine called
"What Doctors Don't Tell You."
Now we're going to get into
some of the issues, particularly
breast cancer and the
wisdom of Angelina Jolie
to have her breasts removed.
Do genetic markers mean an
increased risk of disease?
We'll also discuss
some hidden truths
behind vaccines beyond
what we've already heard,
some very interesting.
This is a juicy magazine.
You really cover a
lot of issues here
and that one is probably
the most controversial
in I don't know how long.
Angelina Jolie
having her breasts
removed because of the BRCA gene
showing up in one of her tests.
So let's just dive into it.
What did the doctors
not tell Angelina?
>>LYNNE MCTAGGART:
Loads of things, Regina.
I mean, first of all, I think
it's completely fallacious
the idea that genes
are a death sentence.
And that is increasingly
being demonstrated in research
around the world.
The first thing that--
I think the assumption
was for that BRCA gene,
that she would have something
like an 87% risk of cancer.
And so she felt that this was an
automatic death sentence if she
didn't do something about it.
When you look at the science,
it demonstrates that that
is absolutely not the case.
First of all, the
overwhelming majority
of women who get breast cancer
do not have the BRCA gene.
That's the first thing.
When they've looked at
it and they've actually
looked at and categorized
who gets breast cancer,
that's a tiny, tiny minority.
The second thing
that's an issue is
that those people
with the BRCA gene,
when they've actually
looked at them
and how many people
go on to get cancer,
or if you have a first
relative who has that,
is if you have one
relative with that gene,
your chances are about 8%.
So even with four
relatives with it--
and I think Angelina Jolie had
two who died of breast cancer--
you still have less than
50%, far less than 50% chance
of getting the disease.
But then beyond all
of that, there's
the whole issue of
environmental factors.
And this is more and
more being demonstrated
as a really important
element of this whole issue.
Scientists wanted to
look at who gets cancer
in an enormous population of
women in the Women's Health
Initiative Study.
Now in that study,
there were thousands
of women who took part.
And the study was really to look
at the safety or not of HRT--
hormone replacement therapy.
They started looking at that
and they stopped the study
prematurely because so
many women got cancer
after taking the hormone that
they realized that there was
this cause-effect relationship.
And so they felt it was
unethical to continue.
Other researchers decided
that this research data
was a gold mine to look at
breast cancer incidence.
And they looked closer
and they figured
that among this population
who'd got breast cancer,
they should have seen even
more with those people who
had a greater likelihood, with
those people who had the BRCA
gene.
When they did,
they found the gene
made no difference whatsoever.
The only thing that resulted
in cancer, the only risk factor
was whether or not the
women had taken HRT.
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
I have my laptop here.
Let me just kind of pop
this up really quickly.
There is another part of
that story with Angelina
in what you just talked about.
I want to get into
the epigenetics of it,
too, because that's
an important topic.
>>MCTAGGART: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And then also get
into the first comment you made,
which is, it's not-- just
because a doctor or tests shows
you have cancer, it is
not a death sentence.
And so this is what happened.
And I think a lot of people were
suspect after this news started
coming out about Angelina.
The company that creates
that test that she used,
Myriad Genetics,
their stock price
skyrocketed, as they say in
this article, thanks to Jolie.
I mean, it went up
50% almost overnight
with the release of the
cover of "People" magazine,
with her doing a very
canned kind of response
to what she had done.
And then here it
goes down further,
it talks about the
implications of that.
This drove stock prices.
And it says here that
Obamacare mandates
taxpayers pay for the BRCA
gene testing under Obamacare.
We're going to have
to pay for that.
Now, if we're finding out
that that's not really
what's at the basis of
the cancer, why would
we have to be paying?
Why would the public be saddled
with those kinds of bills
for that kind of testing?
In addition, the
US Supreme Court--
that was written before
the decision came out
two or three weeks ago--
was going to have to make a
decision on patenting genes.
And they did.
I was thrilled to
find that they--
I know there were some nuances
in it that you cannot patent
human genes.
So that definitely I'm sure
was quite disappointing
for some people in this field.
But when you look at it like
that, what kind of larger story
was being projected here?
What did it do to
the masses of women
who went into terror over the
potential of breast cancer?
>>MCTAGGART: Absolutely.
I mean, I can't comment
on Jolie's motives
because I think--
you know, I think
she tries to use
her celebrity for public good.
But what I can
say is, yeah, it's
a money-making machine now.
A lot of people are going
to make a lot more money out
of this test.
And the bottom line
is it's not necessary.
You have to go back and
look at what scientists
are discovering now
about genes and what
actually causes problems.
What causes cancer and
what causes illness?
Now, we've always been
told that our genes are
the blueprint, the
body's blueprint,
and that they're
very deterministic.
You know, if you've got
good genes or bad genes,
that's going to
determine whether or not
you're ill or well.
But you have to understand
that genes are a little bit
like the keys on a piano.
They're sitting there
in absolute silence
until somebody plays them.
And what plays them
is a quartet of atoms
sitting above the gene.
And they're
exquisitely sensitive
to environmental
influences of every kind--
the air we breathe, the water
we drink, the food we eat,
the friends we have, even
the social life we have.
The sum total of how
we live our lives.
That determines whether
or not those atoms
are going to play the
keys of that piano
and whether those
genes get expressed.
And we see this.
All the cutting-edge
science now shows
that instead of being
built from inside out,
from our DNA to our
cells to our tissues
to our organs, et cetera,
we're built from outside in.
We're built from the
environmental influence that
has, that affects our genes.
And scientists have seen this
with a number of studies.
Probably the most seminal
had to do with a thing called
the agouti mice.
>>REGINA: Yes.
The little mouse.
>>MCTAGGART: The little
mouse that roared.
A fellow called
Randy Jirtle, who
is an expert in genetic
factors gone awry,
was approached by one
of his graduate students
who wanted to see whether
there were substances
that could override bad genes.
So when you want to
do a study like this,
you've got to pull out
a genetic quirk of fate.
You've got to get a kind of a
genetic mistake, so to speak.
And so they chose to
work on agouti mice.
Now, agouti mice are
like the couch potatoes
of the rodent community.
They have a defect
in their genes
that renders them peach-colored,
and they're also hugely obese.
And the assumption has been
that once an agouti mouse,
always an agouti mouse, so
that an agouti mouse should
automatically hand
down its aberrant
genes to its offspring.
And they will also live short
and miserable lives, too.
So they fed pregnant agouti
mice with B vitamins,
because the problem
with agouti mice
is they can't process
B vitamins naturally.
So he gave them some
extra B vitamins and lo
and behold, out came
normal, slim, brown mice
from their offspring.
And so what they
had done completely
rocked the scientific community
because what they demonstrated
is that an environmental
influence, i.e.
vitamins, can override genes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I thought
that was just fascinating.
>>MCTAGGART: And so
this is the real point
and this is where all the new
research in cancer is going on.
There's some research
in Canada by a scientist
called Moshe Schiff,
who was looking
at these epigenetic factors--
and that's that little
quartet of atoms
sitting above the gene--
and how those environmental
influences are the trigger.
And what you need is
not just bad genes,
you need an
environmental trigger.
>>REGINA: And you can
become relatively esoteric
in the discussion here, too,
because of the effect of mind,
spirit, emotions,
as you say, even
the people that you
spend your time with.
And this, I remember in
reading Bruce's first book,
"Biology of Belief," this
one just stuck in my head.
This one example he
gave was of a young boy
who had developed a thicker
skull than the lineage
of the rest of his family.
But it went back
and it was looking
at the factors involved,
which was a lot of brutality
of the mother in utero.
And he's saying in that
kind of instance, the body,
the spirit, whoever drives--
the intelligence that
drives the mechanism
of development,
thickened up the skull because
that being knew that there
would be essentially
potential danger
against his own being, potential
violence against his own being,
as an adaptation.
Which I just
thought was amazing.
Now, none of this
is a surprise to you
because you've spent so many
years with the Intention
Experiment.
>>MCTAGGART: Well, this is it.
I mean, the whole idea that
we're just inextricably linked
between physicality
and mind and spirit.
And all of these factors are
going to play in our genes
and all of these
factors are going
to determine what gets
produced, what gets expressed.
And we see this as--
a doctor who writes for
"What Doctors Don't Tell You"
talked about one
of his patients who
came to him with the bad gene.
And she said, all
of my relatives,
all my female relatives
have had cancer.
And they're all
telling me to have
a just-in-case mastectomy,
double mastectomy.
What should I do?
And he said, well, let's look at
these possible triggers first.
And he explained the whole
epigenetic thing to her.
And then he tested her
and found she was allergic
to milk and a few other things.
And he gave her certain
nutrients and vitamins,
et cetera.
Of all of her female
relatives, she
was the only one who
didn't get cancer.
Didn't go ahead and
have that operation.
And 30 years later
he contacted her,
and she's still alive and
well and hasn't had cancer.
So it's all about that trigger.
So the idea that we have this
automatic blueprint and death
sentence is completely wrong.
>>REGINA: And what
you were just saying,
she trusted that
there were other means
of dealing with her health.
Now, how much of, quote,
this "genetic" kind of
knocked on effect
through the genes--
or not through the genes.
It actually is not
through the genes.
You have an experience
in a family, your mother
and your aunt die of
breast cancer, for example.
And so now you're
frightened of breast cancer.
Now you and your sister are
Now you have
children and they're
frightened of breast cancer.
The mere fact of going
into this fear process
over this very targeted
area of the body
would in effect
create what looks
like a genetic passed-on
effect, would it not?
Because the mind can create
the very circumstance.
>>MCTAGGART:
Interestingly enough,
that happened to
a friend of mine.
Her mother died early of
ovarian cancer, just like Jolie,
and she was terrified.
So she got her ovaries removed.
And then she was also
worried about breast cancer.
And so she got her
breasts removed, too.
And she felt, OK, I'm safe now.
I'm not going to get cancer.
Guess what?
She was-- and her daughter was
told she ought to-- as soon
as she's had her kids, she
ought to get the whole stuff--
all that stuff out, too.
And she got cancer anyway.
She still got cancer.
The doctor said it was
statistically impossible
and she still got cancer.
But I'll address that later
as to possibly why, too.
>>REGINA: Can you
address it now?
We're on it.
>>MCTAGGART: Well,
the real issue
is, what's the risk
factor when you
go through all that operation?
Now, Jolie has had
reconstructive surgery.
My friend had
They put silicone implants in
with reconstructive surgery.
And there's now studies
showing that people
who get silicone implants have
an increased chance of getting
a certain kind of
lymphoma, which
is exactly what my friend got.
And that chance is at
least 20%, I believe.
It's a big increased risk.
And the other
thing, too, is women
who have their
ovaries taken out will
go through an immediate
sudden menopause.
So they will almost
guarantee to be put on HRT.
I remember I talked before.
There is as much as
a 60% chance you're
going to get cancer from HRT.
So added up together,
suddenly you've
got this big increased
risk of breast cancer
after doing the very thing
that's been suggested to you
will avoid it.
And I believe that's
possibly exactly what
happened to my friend.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
What about the-- you deal
with a lot of doctors.
You have doctors on your
panel for this magazine.
When they're speaking about
it from their own perspective
regarding chemo
and [INAUDIBLE]----
you have an article in,
I've forgotten which
month's edition, that chemo
actually will help propagate
cancer in the body.
They have to know this.
>>MCTAGGART: Doctors
realize that cancer--
that chemo and radiation
don't work very well.
I mean, they know this.
The problem is these are
the only tools they have.
That's the first problem.
The second thing is they don't--
they read the medical
literature, which
talks about response times.
With cancer, there's
a lot of lies,
and damn statistics that go on.
And one of those is
talking about relative risk
or relative benefit.
When they write this in
studies, they'll say,
this chemotherapy
had a success rate,
relative success rate of 50%.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
a garbage bucket word.
>>MCTAGGART: Right.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: What's that mean?
>>MCTAGGART: What it means
is, let's say it had--
there was a success
rate before of 2%.
And if chemo raised it to 4%,
they'll call it a 50% success
rate, you know?
So it's that kind of thing.
When they've actually looked
at chemo and looked it all--
we did a study on this recently,
or a story on this recently.
When they did a study and
really stripped out all
the hype and everything, they
found chemo works something
like 2% to 4% of the time.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
>>MCTAGGART: 2%
to 4% of the time.
That's it.
>>REGINA: That is it.
>>MCTAGGART: And
otherwise what it
will do, Regina, is just
a short response time.
In other words,
cancer will recede.
But we all have to remember
what's going on instead
is a huge effect, a huge
damage to the immune system.
And that's what we were
talking to that story
you were mentioning.
What happens is all of the
healthy cells around a prostate
cancer is a story
of prostate cancers.
All of the healthy cells
around the prostate cancer cell
are killed, so that enables the
prostate cancer cell to have
much more of a free ride.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Well, I know that a lot of
these doctors do know that.
I know a lot of the doctors
you're working with clearly
know that.
And the magazine features
articles on alternative
means to deal with
a lot of these.
And I know-- there's one man
here in the United States
called Dr. James Forsythe.
There are many, but he
in particular-- nothing
but problems with the AMA.
I mean, they've come after
him for every minor infraction
that they could possibly
try to trump up.
The reality is he was one of the
first oncologists in California
in that new budding
field 40 years ago.
And was in it for quite a long
time and saw the same thing.
2% to 4%.
You know, you can't
talk about a cure
if you're only living
another three years.
That's not a cure.
And he started
working through many
of the things I think
your magazine also
features, through diet,
attitude, supplementation,
certainly.
And he's been able-- they're now
doing clinical testing on it.
He's been able to get
that number up to 45%.
They're only, I think,
three years in or so.
They're expecting that number
to rise to as much as 70%
as time goes on.
I know that sounds in
reverse, but the way
he was explaining it--
the test isn't
complete at this point.
But they're expecting--
maybe it's reversed.
Maybe it's 70% now
and they expect 45%
at least after five years.
And he only takes
the toughest cases,
the ones who have
given up, some of whom
have already had chemotherapy
and had to totally rebuild
the immune system.
Now, you know another
doctor like that
who has helped people,
thousands of people
that you're aware of,
in England as well.
Is that right?
>>MCTAGGART: Dr. Patrick
Kingsley, who is now retired,
who also has had some hassles
from authorities over time.
But for years lived in a
country village and the world
came to him.
And he specialized in two
no-hoper conditions, which is
multiple sclerosis and cancer.
You also got people
who'd come to him
who were sicker than anyone
else because they'd been
through all of everything else.
And when everyone else gave
up hope, they'd go to him.
And he was changing
case after case.
He didn't lose
that many patients,
including my mother-in-law.
My mother-in-law
went to him after--
my mother-in-law was British,
and typical of that generation
of Britain, she was very stoic.
And she had some bleeding from
her breast and kept this quiet
and just nursed it herself
until it got too bad.
When she finally went to her
general practitioner who said,
you know, I think you've got
cancer, but it's too late.
There's too late
for chemo, it's too
late for radiation, et cetera.
>>REGINA: Thank God.
>>MCTAGGART: Thank God.
It was too late for surgery.
And he told us, she's got
about three months to live.
I'd get her papers in order.
So we decided not to give up
and we brought her to Patrick.
And I was in the room with her
to give her some Dutch courage
when he examined her.
And he looked at
her breast, which
must have been like raw meat.
It was just-- and the other
doctor had recoiled at this.
And he looked at it and he
just said-- and I heard him--
oh, we can handle that.
And I just thought,
at that moment--
>>REGINA: Just that.
>>MCTAGGART: At that moment.
>>REGINA: That's where
the healing begins.
>>MCTAGGART: That's
where the healing began.
Absolutely.
That optimism.
What he did was he gave her very
high-dose intravenous vitamin
C, plus some other
high-dose nutrients.
He also gave her intravenous
hydrogen peroxide,
which is H-2-O-2.
And what happens when that's
injected into the body,
it turns into water and an
extra molecule of oxygen.
And the reason
that's so important
is cancer is anaerobic.
It can't live in oxygen. So
the oxygen zaps the cancer.
So he gave her that.
He changed her diet slightly.
No severe diet
juicing, et cetera.
All he did was take out
dairy and a few other things
that he felt were inflammatory
that she was allergic to,
gave her some
supplements to take,
and it completely
reversed her cancer.
She was 79 at the time.
>>REGINA: Isn't that amazing?
>>MCTAGGART: Yeah.
And she lived another
number of years.
So it was incredible.
Her doctor was speechless
when he examined her
some months later and saw her
breast had completely healed.
>>REGINA: I bet
he was speechless.
Did he-- what did he
say when she told him
how that had been accomplished?
>>MCTAGGART: He was very
open-minded about it
and he was really
interested in it.
But you know, it's outside of
the paradigm they understand.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>MCTAGGART: But he
was very good about it.
Now, there are many
doctors out there
who are very open-minded
and willing to say, OK,
that's not what I learned,
but I'm willing to see.
I'm willing to be proved wrong.
>>REGINA: So what do you think
about the whole pink ribbon
campaign?
>>MCTAGGART: Well, I think there
is the whole thing of Cancer,
Inc. in this
country, in America.
There is a lot of
money behind cancer.
And there's a lot of
suppression and prosecution
of very promising
therapies in cancer.
And I think it's scandalous.
And a lot of it is
all about money.
All about money, because
there's the drugs,
there's the radiation equipment.
It's all big, big business.
And I think this is
scandalous because people
need to be told that this stuff
really doesn't work very well.
And when it does work, it
works because people really
believe it's going to work.
>>REGINA: Right.
I agree with you.
And I have friends
who've had breast cancer
and been through the whole
gamut of treatments and just--
it was the most miserable
period of their lives,
and they managed
to get through it.
But to put pink
ribbons out there as
though it's a social club, as
though you should expect this,
one in three of you
should expect this now.
I mean, that's a bit of
predictive programming there,
isn't it?
>>MCTAGGART: Well, it is,
and I think what we really
have to look at is, if
it's one in three of us,
what are we doing wrong
in our lives that's
causing this cancer?
What environmental factor
is having a big issue?
And I tell you what it
is without a doubt--
hormones.
You know, a majority of women
are on some kind of hormone.
They've taken the pill
or they've taken HRT,
and there's very compelling
data demonstrating,
like that Women's
Health Initiative,
that this stuff causes cancer.
And there's so many
other elements, too,
that we really have to look at.
So rather than, let's cure
it through these heroic
and dangerous and
damaging means,
let's look at why we have so
much cancer, and prevent it.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
While I'm on that
note, I was talking
about Dr. James Forsythe.
Anyone that wants to,
that's in the Gaia Archive,
and then they can get
the stats straight
because I can't remember them.
But the story's good
and it very much
aligns with what you're saying.
What about mammograms?
That's a huge one.
>>MCTAGGART: That's
a huge one too,
because women are told,
well, because we're all
going to have breast
cancer, so you've
got to have an annual
or semiannual mammogram.
And once again,
there's no question--
no question, Regina-- the
absolute evidence is there.
Mammograms cause cancer.
They increase the possibility
you're going to get cancer.
And if you're getting
them all the time,
you're just
increasing your risk,
because X-rays are
cumulative in the body.
So I think that that's
a dangerous mechanism.
And what we have to look
at are better alternatives.
And these days, there's
a fantastic alternative
in thermography.
Thermography looks
at-- cancer cells
give off more heat
than regular cells.
And they find this very,
very early on, at a point
where it's so easy to treat it.
And the other problem
with mammograms
is that they create--
they find-- they're
like, indiscriminate.
They'll find any
problem, any anomaly
in the breast, any unusual
lump or tumor of density
becomes a cancer.
And so the problem is massive,
massive overtreatment.
One of the examples of that is
a thing called ductal carcinoma
in situ, which is a cancer
that nine out of 10 cases
does not progress to cancer.
But because it's picked
up, most people--
ductal carcinoma in situ, DCIS,
in the vast majority of cases
just burns itself out.
It's just some sort of
anomaly at some point.
It's some sort of weird
mass that just runs a course
and burns itself out.
And they find this with
women who don't treat it.
But women now all
get treated for that.
They get treated as
though that is cancer.
It's not.
>>REGINA: So they do chemo,
radiation, those things on it?
>>MCTAGGART: The
whole thing on--
>>REGINA: Oh, geez.
>>MCTAGGART: --something that--
>>REGINA: It's not even cancer.
>>MCTAGGART: --doesn't spread.
That isn't even cancer.
It's just a pre-cancer, as
they call it, which is--
there's no such thing
as pre-sex and there's
no such thing as pre-cancer.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCTAGGART: You to do it
or you don't, you know?
But thermography is fabulous,
because it picks up--
it's much more accurate.
It picks up things that are--
oftentimes it will demonstrate
that something isn't cancer
when a mammogram has said it is.
And it's also not
invasive in any way.
It doesn't hurt the body.
Another one for a really
experienced practitioner
is ultrasound.
It's slightly less accurate,
but it is, in experienced hands,
it's highly accurate
and highly specific.
>>REGINA: The main point
of this conversation
for me is that, what you said
toward the beginning, which is,
cancer is not a death sentence.
We all have cancer
cells in our body.
Some of us will express
it in one way or another.
But there are relatively
inexpensive ways
to go about reversing it.
I mean from broccoli-- and you
have one little article here
on broccoli and breast cancer,
including aggressive breast
cancers.
But all the way to
far-infrared light.
I mean, there are
many, many ways
to go about reversing this.
>>MCTAGGART: Yes, absolutely.
>>REGINA: The fear is what
really drives it in, it feels.
>>MCTAGGART: The
fear drives it in.
And people must understand that
cancer isn't an automatic death
sentence.
Cancer is a process.
Cancer is something in your life
that is really out of kilter
that you have to address.
One of the most dangerous things
that doctors say to patients
is, live your life as
you've always lived it.
Well, the way you've
always lived it
is what has given
you the cancer.
Whether that is--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>MCTAGGART: Whether that is
the toxins in your toiletries,
whether that is your
bad diet, whether that
is huge deficiencies,
whether that
is an emotional-- if you're
in an emotional cul-de-sac,
or you feel like a trapped
rat in your relationship
or your workplace.
Those are all
cancer-causing situations.
People oftentimes get
cancer when they either have
a trauma, some big trauma--
>>REGINA: Very common.
>>MCTAGGART: --or
they've lost the ability
to foresee that life will
ever be joyful again.
And so those sorts of things
are all cancer-causing.
So the last thing you
want to do is live life
as you've always lived it.
But what it is, is
a huge wake-up call
to say, what am I doing wrong
and what do I have to fix?
And through that
big life review,
you have a good chance
of getting better
with any kind of cancer.
But it means really changing
the way you live your life.
>>REGINA: Well, and
still a lot of people
do prefer a magic
bullet, if they
think that the chemo or
radiation or the surgery
is the magic bullet.
But that's something
we're having
to look at across the board,
is self-responsibility.
We've been conditioned
to give that power away.
>>MCTAGGART: Absolutely.
I can't tell you how many people
I've talked my talk to who
have-- friends of
mine, or friends,
or people I know with cancer--
who I've said, well, please
talk to these people who
will give you a protocol
of different things to do
and different things to look at.
And if you clean up the
toxins in your environment
and you clean up your diet
and you take supplements
and you look at your
spiritual and emotional life,
you have a good chance
of beating this.
And they say--
>>REGINA: Too much work.
>>MCTAGGART: --I think
I'd rather just-- yeah.
I think I'd rather
just take the drug.
And that's the
mentality, as you say.
>>REGINA: We've been raised--
>>MCTAGGART: It's
the magic pill.
>>REGINA: We've been
raised to do that.
>>MCTAGGART: Yeah.
The magic pill for every ill.
And we really need
to look at that one,
because the magic pill comes
with its own set of side
effects.
Very dangerous.
And the magic pill in the
main doesn't work very well.
>>REGINA: True.
OK, another subject we want
to talk about is vaccines.
And we'll talk about it from
a couple of different angles
than--
normally we talk about
babies and vaccines,
and we'll get to that.
But it's summer travel
season right now,
as we're shooting this,
and a lot of people,
if you're going to an
exotic region of the world,
they tell you you must have this
shot, you must have that shot.
And shoot, when
I was 20, I think
I had all of them
when I was going
to exotic parts of the world.
Let's talk about what's
required versus what's not.
And you have a
really good article
in your magazine on that.
>>MCTAGGART: Well,
vaccines are often
the place where doctors
and the medical profession
have lost all reason
about illness and risk.
And travel vaccines
take that even further.
Do you know that on the British
website-- where I live--
on the British National
Health Service website,
they talk about danger
zones and where you need
to have a load of vaccines.
And included in there is the US.
>>REGINA: You have to have
vaccines to come over-- whoa,
interesting.
>>MCTAGGART: And Portugal.
>>REGINA: What kind?
>>MCTAGGART: I know, we were
two highly developed countries
the last time I looked.
But it's that kind of
just-in-case mentality
that assumes that you can do
all of this with impunity.
And here's the problem
with travel vaccines.
And these are vaccines for
cholera, typhoid, mal--
malaria doesn't have a vaccine.
You take a drug to treat
malaria as a just-in-case thing.
And they hope that
will act as a vaccine,
because they don't have
an effective vaccine yet.
And there's things like
Japanese encephalitis
and tick-borne encephalitis,
and all sorts of stuff.
Hepatitis A and B--
all these kinds of things.
Now, the big problem
is, in the main,
these travel vaccines
don't work very well.
Typhoid, cholera, they have
really bad success rates.
And some of the others--
well, just about all of them--
also come with a
coterie of side effects.
Some of them cause paralysis,
some of them cause death,
some of them cause all
kinds of travel sickness.
I mean, taking
malaria, the number
of people who take the malaria
combination pills now and are
sick for their entire
holiday is just huge.
And the other thing is, so
they don't work very well
in the main.
Many of them wear off quickly.
They come with a huge
number of side effects.
And for many of them,
they're not really necessary.
When you actually look at the
statistics of the number-- you
know, the likelihood
you're going
to get one of these illnesses,
they're extremely low.
So here's the problem with
vaccines of all sorts.
It's always a
risk-benefit equation.
There's so much that is
buried about vaccines
that the general
public almost never get
to hear about side
effects unless they
do their own research.
But every single
vaccine, travel vaccines
included, come with a huge range
of side effects and as I say,
work imperfectly.
It's not that they
don't work at all.
It's that they're
work imperfectly.
After all, they are an
immunological trick.
They're basically
tricking the body
into thinking it's
got the disease,
so it mounts an
immune system defense.
So that when it hits
the disease, the idea--
you know, when it actually is
confronted with the disease,
the idea is that the
immune system will then
have a bulletproof vest on and
be able to defend you from it.
But that doesn't always work.
It doesn't always work.
And the problem is,
too, introducing
all of these foreign proteins,
introducing all of these--
some of these nasty chemicals--
a lot of them have formaldehyde
in them, for instance--
cause damage,
Caused real damage.
And as I say, in many cases
they're not necessary.
All you need to do is follow
some basic rules of hygiene
when you're traveling.
So I always say that the
questions anybody looking
at any kind of vaccine, whether
for children or for travel,
needs to ask is these three.
How necessary is this?
How effective is this vaccine?
And how safe is this vaccine?
Because that's always going
to be your weighing-off thing.
And if you find, oh,
well, actually only
20 people in the entire world
got cholera last year who
are travelers, but the side
effects of this vaccine
include dismemberment and death,
they include severe damage,
well, then that risk-benefit
equation just doesn't stack up.
So one should avoid it.
But I think our whole purpose is
not telling people what to do.
Our entire purpose
with this magazine
is to give people the facts
they don't get anywhere else
and let them make an informed
decision to take control
of their own health.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
On that same note, you
were talking about malaria,
they haven't created
a vaccine yet.
And then you have the
work of Jim Humble.
And Jim Humble
with his MMS, which
is a type of sodium chloride.
He initially discovered
its properties
because he was mining in
Africa and the people that
were with him--
that is how the
story goes, right?
He had some people that were
with him who developed malaria
and he had actually only brought
that simple, cheap, cheap
substance along to purify water.
And out of desperation-- they
weren't close to anything--
he started giving it
to the helpers, right?
Well, the malaria
reversed itself.
But now, since then, tens if not
hundreds of thousands of people
have used MMS for curing
these dastardly diseases
in situations, even working
with it with cancer,
and it costs maybe,
what, $12 for a bottle
to run the whole course.
I mean there are these
things out there like MMS.
>>MCTAGGART: Absolutely.
Well, there's one lone tried
and tested herbal remedy called
Artemisia annua--
wormwood.
And wormwood has been used
in traditional cultures
for many, many years
to treat malaria.
And they found--
and they've done
studies on this in the
medical literature--
that it not only
treats, it prevents.
It's a preventative as well.
Now, of course the drug
companies got on to this
and they decided, right, let's
take the active ingredient out
of this.
It's artemisinin, or
something like that.
And add other drugs to it.
So they've got ACT drugs,
which are drugs that have
this active ingredient in it.
And guess what's happening?
As is the case with
just about every drug,
the malaria bug is developing
a resistance to it.
So we suggest people go back
to the original herb that's
got all of the other
factors in there.
You're less likely to
encounter resistance.
>>REGINA: Yes.
There is another one-- tetanus.
A lot of times people--
Johan Boswinkel,
the biophoton man,
said tetanus actually is
devastating to the body
because it switches
off the body's ability
to discern when something
really is out of whack or out
of balance.
It can't tell anymore, so it
doesn't mount any response.
>>MCTAGGART: I have heard that.
I've heard that tetanus
is really damaging
to the immune system.
One has to remember, you are
injecting yourself with lived
or killed toxins or bugs.
You know, viruses or bacteria.
>>REGINA: In that unstable
medium of eggs and things
like that.
>>MCTAGGART: And
also foreign DNA.
And that can be
particularly devastating
to a very young immune
system, like a newborn baby.
So it's again, it's a situation
where the medical profession
has lost all reason.
And it's well-intended.
Of course, the idea that they
are trying to prevent illness
is well-intended.
And they feel that this
is the safest and the best
way of doing it.
But they just-- you
know, the path to hell
was paved with good intentions.
And that's exactly
what's going on,
because there's untold damage
that these vaccines have
caused.
>>REGINA: What about the basic
ones like measles, for example?
>>MCTAGGART: Well, measles is
really interesting, because--
we've done a number
of stories recently
in "What Doctors
Don't Tell You."
Because measles--
Dr. Andrew Wakefield,
the gastroenterologist
in the UK,
had a load of pediatric
patients, young children,
who came to him with terrible
gut problems and also autism.
And the common link
between all of them
was recently being vaccinated
with the measles, mumps,
rubella vaccine.
Now, Andrew Wakefield published
his material in "The Lancet."
And he published
a follow-up study
and he continued studying that.
He was totally demonized.
>>REGINA: Crucified.
>>MCTAGGART: He was
crucified in the UK.
They stripped him of
his medical license,
they trumped up some
sort of stupid charge.
And now the press now has
decided that they were culpable
because they talked about
the dangers of the vaccine,
and the take-up rate
of MMR fell down.
And there have been a
few outbreaks of measles,
and they've blamed it on
the take-up rate going down.
What they haven't
said, what the doctors
don't tell you is that a great
number of those children who
developed measles
had been vaccinated.
>>REGINA: Oh.
There you go.
Again.
>>MCTAGGART: So the vaccine
doesn't necessarily work.
There have been many
outbreaks of measles
and they have been
among populations
where 98% were vaccinated.
That happened in Corpus
Christi in Texas.
The children were vaccinated.
So a lot of the vaccines
work far less well.
You know, when we get "success
rates" on the vaccines,
what they're testing
is antibody levels.
They test-- they
give kids a vaccine
and then they test
how well their bodies
have produced antibodies.
Well, there are many
cases where somebody
who has full coterie
of antibodies
still develops the disease.
So looking at
antibody response is
no guarantee the vaccine
is going to work for you.
So the bottom line with measles
is, the new measles epidemics
came back, none of the press
would comment at all about it,
but the autism statistics
do not go away.
The connection between
measles vaccine--
the MMR vaccine and autism and
gut problems doesn't go away.
And they found that something
in that vaccine damages the gut
and causes these larger
molecules to pass through
from certain foods, particularly
foods dairy and wheat,
pass through and hit the
brain and cause a problem.
So there still seems
to be a tie-in there.
There seems to be a huge tie
between so much foreign DNA
from all of these vaccines
and damage, vaccine damage.
And the damage doesn't go away.
There's been so much.
Recently we did a story about
Gardasil, the cervical cancer
vaccine, and it
was heartbreaking.
Perfectly healthy teenagers and
young adults get this vaccine
and are dead a week, two
weeks, three weeks later.
And it's always blamed
on a coincidence.
But nobody's looking further.
Nobody's joining the dots.
And I find that totally
and utterly irresponsible.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
You've studied this
for quite a long time.
You feature it, I'm
assuming, somewhat regularly
in the magazine, from
different angles.
In your opinion, is there ever
a valid reason for vaccinating?
>>MCTAGGART: You know,
I would never say never.
And we never tell
people not to vaccine.
We tell them to make
up their own minds.
What I do think, though, is
that weighing-up situation.
If you have a highly
effective vaccine that's
been proven out there in
the field to really work,
and you have an epidemic, so
it's necessary, it's safe,
and you could see
this clear benefit,
well, then, that's an
equation that stacks up.
But if you've got something
that's not very safe, not
very effective, then there is
no reason to get vaccinated.
>>REGINA: Does that include
for your little babies?
The problem is political.
How do you get
your kids in school
without a vaccine record?
That's a big one.
>>MCTAGGART: Yeah.
You create a new religion.
Or you have a--
I think in a number
of states they
allow a conscientious objection,
basically, that you just
don't believe in this.
Some of them allow that.
Some of them allow it on
religious grounds, some of them
allow it on medical grounds.
And parents-- a lot of parents
homeschool because they
don't want to vaccinate.
>>REGINA: Then they come
after homeschooling.
>>MCTAGGART: Or they lie.
Or they lie.
But, I mean, our own view is
that your children come first,
whatever it takes.
If you don't feel-- if you've
done your homework, and I think
that's the important thing.
This is an individual decision.
Once again, I'm not telling
people not to vaccinate,
I'm telling them to get
educated and to find out
the real truth about how
safe and how dangerous
these things are.
When you've done all of your
study of every single vaccine
and made up your decision
based on those three
questions on every single
vaccine, then follow your truth
and follow what you think
is right for your child.
Because the medical
profession will try to bully
you into accepting this as part
of your responsibility for herd
immunity.
Well, that argument
doesn't stack up, as far
as I'm concerned, because if
these vaccines worked so well,
and I decide not to vaccinate
and you decide to do so, well,
your child is not going
to get the disease anyway.
I'm going to just
lay myself open to it
and that's my own choice--
or my child open to it--
it's my own choice.
If it works, we shouldn't
worry about herd immunity.
But herd immunity is
about stopping the disease
for the general population.
It's an epidemiological idea.
It's not the idea of any parent.
And I'm sorry, I would
not sacrifice my children
for an epidemiological
situation,
and nor should anybody.
>>REGINA: Hear, hear.
Know what?
Let's talk the other
end of the spectrum--
older people, senior citizens.
In one of the
magazine articles, it
was saying it's not advised
that senior citizens subject
themselves to vaccines, the
annual flu shots and so forth.
Why is that?
>>MCTAGGART: Well, the
flu shots don't work.
The best a flu shot can do is
to create a vaccine against one
strain of flu virus.
Well, there are a million ones.
And of course, viruses
are very clever things
that mutate all the time.
So it usually is a vaccine
for last year's flu.
So first of all, it's
not affecting-- you know,
it's not effective against
this year's strain.
And secondly, it tends to be the
case that one of the major side
effects is flu.
So a lot of people who
get the flu vaccine
are sick as dogs with flu.
But there are many other things.
Remember, think about
the body as strongest
with a strong immune
system, rather than
this immunological trick.
The best way to prevent
flu is to eat healthily,
take your supplements, do
all of those healthy things.
Live your happy life,
live your dream.
Do all of those things so
you've got emotional, mental,
physical, and
spiritual wellness.
And then you're probably
not going to get flu.
>>REGINA: Probably not.
We don't have that
much time left
and we have several things
I want to kind of jump
through here.
So now we're on
our little laundry
list of different things.
One of the articles
was on antidepressants,
saying that they actually
will create miscarriage
and can also be
implicated in autism.
>>MCTAGGART: A really ironic
situation with antidepressants
is that they are often
given out for women
who are trying to get pregnant,
who are going through IVF.
And oftentimes there
is no appreciation--
and I don't know
how this could be
in post-thalidomide
medicine, that there's
no appreciation about what
drugs can do to pregnant women.
So they believe that there is
no problem with antidepressants.
So it's OK to give
them to women who
are pregnant, because pregnancy
has its ups and downs.
And of course, with women
who are undergoing IVF,
it's very stressful, et
cetera, so oftentimes they're
handed an anti-depressant.
And it can cause
the very situation
they're trying to prevent.
So it's just, again, medicine is
so bad at joining up the dots.
And I guess it's
all about the fact
that doctors have gone through
hell to become a doctor.
You know, the whole
medical training situation
is boot camp times a hundred.
It's so hard.
It's so difficult.
It's so bullying.
It's so-- all of those things.
>>REGINA: You come
out with such debt.
>>MCTAGGART: Yes, exactly.
And you are bullied into
thinking a certain way.
So it's almost heresy to
think outside that box.
So they are taught
by rote, essentially,
to believe in a certain way.
So when a drug comes along and
they think it will alleviate--
and they want to do good.
They want to alleviate
the vast, the morass
of suffering they see before
them every single day.
So they're so well-intended.
So if a drug is supposed
to be good for something,
they want to believe
that it's good for that,
and they don't want to
believe that it also
causes all of these things.
So I think it's always--
I always want to emphasize
it's not the carpenter,
it's his tools.
It's not the doctors,
it's the tools
he's been given are just
an inferior set of tools.
And that whole autism link,
this is all part and parcel
of nobody being willing in
medicine to look at the fact
that maybe medicine
is responsible,
modern medicine
and various drugs
are responsible for the
absolute explosion we have
of autism cases in the West.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
We also want to talk about--
I have a few things--
beta blocker, statins,
and Alzheimer's.
But let's talk about
the niacin story.
>>MCTAGGART: Niacin is an
example of, once again,
an example of medicine
wanting to treat
natural substances like a drug.
Now, niacin is known to be
very effective for preventing
heart disease.
And doctors know this.
They've been giving
niacin for a long time.
But niacin causes a flush.
And that's because it causes
the arteries to expand,
so it causes flush--
>>REGINA: A hot flash.
>>MCTAGGART: Yeah, it's
a hot flash, basically.
It causes this flush, so
sometimes that's embarrassing.
So doctors decide-- or medicine
decided and the drug companies
decided--
let's team this up.
The active ingredient
for niacin,
we'll team up niacin with
an anti-flushing drug.
So they did this, and all of
a sudden it started causing
problems and side effects.
So the press threw this out.
They got the story as,
niacin doesn't work.
Great heart disease
preventative doesn't work.
And of course, it wasn't that.
It was the drug that
niacin got saddled with,
they got paired with,
that didn't work.
Niacin has been demonstrated
with lots of research to work.
So it's that kind of thinking
that you can isolate stuff
like that, you can
isolate an element
or you can pair it
up with a chemical,
and you can do
that with infinity.
And that's-- or with impunity.
And that's that whole
concept of the body,
is this kind of collection
of chemicals and chemical
signaling.
So if you give it to--
you give them this
and you give them
a little of this,
our bodies are like
a chemistry set,
we can just do
that with impunity.
And you know, we can't.
We can't.
We're much more
complex than that.
>>REGINA: Well, never
having taken niacin,
wouldn't it make sense if
you take your niacin tab--
if it's embarrassing--
I mean, you
must know the time
it takes before it
starts expressing the flush.
Can't you just time it so you're
not in a situation publicly?
Or--
>>MCTAGGART: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: I mean,
what's the big deal?
>>MCTAGGART: Well,
But you know, I mean, medicine,
doctor, pharmaceutical industry
is always looking
for a new market
and there was a new
market, you know?
>>REGINA: Hey.
Jumpy leg syndrome.
There's a drug for that, too.
>>MCTAGGART: Exactly.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: What about statins?
Because you're
saying-- this article
is saying-- they actually
cause major artery damage.
>>MCTAGGART: Statins are--
I mean, statins cause
all kinds of things.
We know they cause
muscle weakness.
We know now they're
demonstrated to-- there's
been a lot of trumpeting about
statins as the great wonder
drug for cholesterol.
And they're now finding
more and more and more
side effects with this
drug that are crazy.
But the most important point
about the statin scandal
that really has to be
made is, as we age,
high cholesterol is protective.
High cholesterol is protective.
And one of the problems
that's happening with lowering
cholesterol artificially through
statins is that people are
suffering memory
loss, Alzheimer's--
>>REGINA: Yeah,
the brain is highly
dependent upon cholesterol
for its function.
>>MCTAGGART: Absolutely.
And cholesterol isn't--
cholesterol is like the guy who
runs--
who gets there first at
the scene of the crime
and then gets saddled
with blame for the crime.
So cholesterol is
around the arteries
of the body as a
kind of scaffolding
to try to keep it open.
Cholesterol has been sent
there by the body to help,
not to hinder.
And so the idea that we're going
to lower cholesterol really
has real implications
for older people.
So as we see, every time
you try to put a drug--
stop a natural
process with a drug,
you cause all kinds
of other problems.
And that's what they're
starting to see with statins.
And one after another negative
story after this wonder drug--
you know, a couple of decades
after this wonder drug was
unleashed on the world--
or so-called wonder drug--
we're now getting the
feedback that it's not
so wonderful after all.
>>REGINA: My sister works
as a cardiac care nurse.
And she said--
I won't mention
which organization,
but she said they have
no answers really,
when it comes to cholesterol
levels and heart health.
Because there are
so many anomalies
that there really is nothing
that you can consider normal
per se.
Depending on that person's own
makeup, their family's makeup--
back to genetics again--
the genetics or whatnot,
that high cholesterol levels
can actually be very
healthy for one individual,
where maybe not so
much for another one.
And you can't tell looking at
numbers and taking those tests.
>>MCTAGGART: No.
There's not a pill
to correct an ill,
but there's one
very simple thing
to do if you want to
prevent heart disease.
Don't eat processed food.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Very good.
>>MCTAGGART: Don't
eat processed food,
because that is so inextricably
linked with heart disease.
That's got to be number one.
>>REGINA: Number one, OK.
And then also, you and I
were talking off camera
about the body's own
intelligence itself,
where if you do start having
blockages to certain arteries,
that other pathways are made.
>>MCTAGGART: This is
the interesting thing
about bypass surgery.
They found when people for some
reason didn't get a bypass,
the body would create
its own little bypass
that is interrupted if you
go in there for the knife.
And when there's so many other
problems with bypass surgery,
it behooves you to start
looking at other alternatives.
But the main key, really
simple key to heart disease
is eat healthy food
high in B vitamins.
Don't eat processed food.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCTAGGART: And stay
out of high-stress jobs.
>>REGINA: Is that right?
Yes, absolutely.
>>MCTAGGART: Oh, and
finally, get connected.
Half of all heart disease,
from the evidence,
is from just simple loneliness.
>>REGINA: It's true.
>>MCTAGGART: So stay connected.
>>REGINA: And also,
isn't oxytocin produced
when you hug one another?
>>MCTAGGART: Yeah.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: I mean,
something as simple
as that starts creating
the very drugs you
need for your own heart
health and well-being.
>>MCTAGGART: Absolutely.
And even Dean Ornish
says half of all cases
of his cases of heart disease
aren't caused by cholesterol.
They are caused
by just people who
are lonely and not connected.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that
makes total sense.
We only have a couple
of minutes left,
but we'll just touch on
Alzheimer's very briefly
and the aluminum implication.
>>MCTAGGART: Really interesting.
We covered a story in our
magazine by one of our doctors
who wrote about one of his
patients who had Alzheimer's.
And they couldn't figure
out what was wrong
and they brought him to see him.
And he isolated the fact that
it had to do with two things--
the aluminum in her
deodorant and the mercury
fillings in her mouth.
When both were removed,
she completely got over her
Alzheimer's.
So oftentimes Alzheimer's can be
caused by basically heavy metal
poisoning.
>>REGINA: Can you have
them chelated out as well?
Is that one way to go?
>>MCTAGGART: Yeah.
That's a good way to go.
>>REGINA: On one little trick
here, one of our interviewees
told me off camera, he
said, people are doing this
to their bodies, putting this
aluminum-laced deodorant on.
He said the best
deodorant in the world
is just fresh lime juice.
Just cut a lime in
half and use it.
So I thought, well,
I'll give it a try.
Why not?
It's unbelievable.
Lime juice, fresh
lime juice, to me,
works better than any deodorant
I've ever used in my lifetime.
>>MCTAGGART: There you go.
Chemicals never win their--
>>REGINA: Getting
some bioflavonoids.
>>MCTAGGART: Yeah.
Good old nature.
>>REGINA: Any final thoughts?
We have only just
about a minute left
to kind of wrap up
this conversation
and then we'll say goodbye.
It has been a
wonderful two hours.
>>MCTAGGART: Oh, wonderful.
Well, me too.
I think the most
important message here
is that it's really
important for all of us
to take control
of our own health.
I mean, medicine has
been brilliant for trauma
and for emergencies, without
parallel in the world.
But for every other
chronic problem,
there's a better solution,
a more natural solution.
And I really encourage
everyone to do their homework
before submitting to
a pill, and to look
at drugs as a very last resort.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Personal responsibility,
the one thing
that, certainly in
American culture
and in the West at large,
we seem to want to avoid.
Lynne, thank you so
much for your time.
Beautiful magazine.
>>MCTAGGART: Thank
you very much.
>>REGINA: In fact, I'm
getting a subscription
for my British
mother-in-law to that.
>>MCTAGGART: Wonderful.
Thanks so much.
>>REGINA: Again, to have
access to this wonderful new
publication, "What
Doctors Don't Tell You,"
you can go to wddty.com.
Now, for British viewers,
you can find the magazine
in most shops and supermarkets.
In America, you can
find it at Whole Foods.
And you can also get an
online edition as well as one
through an app.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]